README.md, before:

# BagIt Splitting and Unsplitting Tools

## Overview

This tool provides functionality for splitting BagIt bags into a collection of
smaller bags, and for "unsplitting" these bags back into a single bag mostly
identical to the original.

## Usage

To see the full command-line help text, do:

    $ python bag-split.py --help

## Prerequisites

None, but this script operates on split bags created by the Library of Congress' [bagit-java](https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/bagit-java) tool.

### Splitting a Bag

    $ bag splitbagbysize <BAG> --maxbagsize 30
    $ python bag-split.py split <BAG>

The first command above uses the official BagIt command-line utility
(`bag`) to split the original <BAG>, in this example using 30GB as the
per-bag limit. You can also use --maxbagsize values like .001 to indicate 
1 MB (for example).

The second command uses this tool to verify the split bags against the
original bag for integrity and completeness, as well as to create an
additional "metadata" bag among the split bags; the /data directory of 
the metadata bag will contain the original bag's manifests and bag-info.txt file.

### Unsplitting a Bag

    $ python bag-split.py unsplit <DIRECTORY CONTAINING BAGS>

This command creates a new directory called `MERGED_BAG` by merging the
bags found inside <DIRECTORY CONTAINING BAGS> into a single reconstructed
bag.  The tool will check that the reconstructed bag is a faithful
reconstruction of the original. If the input directory's name ended in "_split"
(this is added by the LoC tool when it splits a bag), the resulting directory will 
have the same name with "_split" removed; if the input directory name did not end 
in "_split", "_merged" will be added to the name of the input directory.

## License

See LICENSE.txt

Commit message:

Update README.md - tool is not maintained
We're doing some MetaArchive documentation cleanup, and I want to make sure folks know that this tool is no longer maintained or functional.  

For more, please see: https://confluence.educopia.org/display/MET/Bag+Split+Utility

README.md, after:

# NOTE: As of 2023 this tool is no longer maintained or supported.

# BagIt Splitting and Unsplitting Tools

## Overview

This tool provides functionality for splitting BagIt bags into a collection of
smaller bags, and for "unsplitting" these bags back into a single bag mostly
identical to the original.

## Usage

To see the full command-line help text, do:

    $ python bag-split.py --help

## Prerequisites

None, but this script operates on split bags created by the Library of Congress' [bagit-java](https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/bagit-java) tool.

### Splitting a Bag

    $ bag splitbagbysize <BAG> --maxbagsize 30
    $ python bag-split.py split <BAG>

The first command above uses the official BagIt command-line utility
(`bag`) to split the original <BAG>, in this example using 30GB as the
per-bag limit. You can also use --maxbagsize values like .001 to indicate 
1 MB (for example).

The second command uses this tool to verify the split bags against the
original bag for integrity and completeness, as well as to create an
additional "metadata" bag among the split bags; the /data directory of 
the metadata bag will contain the original bag's manifests and bag-info.txt file.

### Unsplitting a Bag

    $ python bag-split.py unsplit <DIRECTORY CONTAINING BAGS>

This command creates a new directory called `MERGED_BAG` by merging the
bags found inside <DIRECTORY CONTAINING BAGS> into a single reconstructed
bag.  The tool will check that the reconstructed bag is a faithful
reconstruction of the original. If the input directory's name ended in "_split"
(this is added by the LoC tool when it splits a bag), the resulting directory will 
have the same name with "_split" removed; if the input directory name did not end 
in "_split", "_merged" will be added to the name of the input directory.

## License

See LICENSE.txt
